Now I'm going to leave a resource of how the configuration file in engine X works.
There's great documentation online and as with all configuration you don't have to memorize the syncs.
These are just things that you're going to look up when you actually implement a load balancer.
So I'm going to just start off with some basic setup first.
I'm going to say that the worker process is going to be one where I don't need the call.
Now what does that mean.
Well the number of worker processes is defined by this file and can be whatever we want we can add 2
3 four.
These are worker processes.
And it usually matches the number of C-p use you want to use.
So for example if you had for use on your machine that you might use for.
For now I'm just going to leave it or one.
Next we define the events
and these events are going to have something called Worker connections and I'm going to say it's going
to have 1024.
And you see thousand twenty four or five 16 as the default here.
Quite a lot.
Again this sets the maximum number of simultaneous connections that can be opened by a worker process.
So we have one worker process and the are the max simultaneous connections we can have.
And then finally we get to the fun part.
We defined the HP
and this TTP.
Well we'll have to tell it that we want the load balancer and Gen X to pass on to the servers that we
have.
So in our case I'll say server web one is going to be on port three thousand.
And these are going to match the names that we have over here and the ports associated with them.
So I'm going to say server one is going to be well one three thousand.
The next one will be two three thousand one.
And then finally server web 3 will be on port three thousand two.
And now that we think about it most likely these web servers are going to be opening to the same port
because we're just replicating them replicating them replicating them.
So most of the time these are going to have port let's say 3000 consistently open.
So I'm going to just change that back to 3000 3000 and do the same.
And my doc Rafal
going back here I'm going to now we have to make sure that we can use and reference these somehow.
And the default way we do this is we use upstream and upstream we can just call this whatever we want
let's just call it my app 1 and we're going to wrap these up here and I'll show you what this does in
the next life.
So we've said that the upstream is going to be my app one that will contain these three servers and
not server server.
We can now say that the server is going to listened
to port 80 and I got to make sure I don't forget the semi-colons here
and then I'm going to say that the location of the default route is going to lead us to what we call
a Proxy Pass.
So remember how he said it's going to be a reverse proxy Proxy Pass simply says I want you to access
the my app.
One we just created.
So this upstream my app one can now be referenced in the proxy pass over here.
So we're simply saying hey if we hit the main route like this just pass all those down to server one
server to server three.
Again this is all pretty well documented and their configuration.
It's unique to engine x.
So it might look confusing now but is just the default way to set up a load balancer.
And now we have everything pretty much set up.
But we can also do some cool things with engine X for example if I was serving static files I can say
location and by using this little syntax I can say serve any CSX javascript gif.
What else we have.
We have JPEG we have PMG files
and anything that includes those I want you to just cache.
So if we ever have any of these files with these extensions.
Well in that case just cache them using expires parameter and we can say anything you want like 168
hours and that's it.
Let's make sure I remember all the semi-colons here.
And this is a typical engine X configuration file.
Again all we're really doing is just saying hey reference my app 1 and this is going to include these
servers and we're going to do a proxy pass through these and we're just going to listen to port 80.
All right so let's save this.
I'm going to go to Dr. compose.
We now have an engine X folder that will run the doc file and is going to move our configuration file
that we've just created onto our container.
So let's give this a run and see how this works.
First let's run NPM for docker compose up dash dash build and see if everything is working.
And we get a bit of an error here because I did make a tiny mistake and that is over here it should
be worker processes even though it's one because it's expecting sometimes more than one it should be
worker processes.
So let's save and try that again.
Going to close and redo all of that
hey look at that server running at these ports.
Remember this local host is within the container though so we can't really access it.
But we have our web servers running.
So if I go to local host port 80 Now let's give that a go.
Localhost and instead of Port 3000 will do port 80.
All right we got some sort of a response.
If I open up the console there's no errors.
But check this out.
If I go back now I see traffic.com requested.
And also I have been hit web one has been hit.
So it just responding.
Now if we go back and refresh again go back
we see that.
Oh OK.
Now we have too.
That was head also with three that was head and Fabrikant as requested from Webb won and the load balancer
just in order hitting each one of these servers.
And if we go back to the configuration file you can actually define up here how you want to distribute
the weight.
For example you want WEP one to have more you get twice as many requests as well two and three.
You can do that.
You can have different orders.
But for now is just hitting them one by one in order.
One two three.
Then one two three.
One two three very very cool.
And that was very hard to implement.
Right.
Now here's the exciting part.
Let's have some fun with this.
We now have a load balancer that's passing down requests.
What if we just hit it with a ton of requests with hundreds and hundreds of request.
Well we can do a bit of a load balancing testing a load testing.
And luckily for us there's a ton of resources that we can use here.
We're going to use the low test NPM package but there's a lot of fun sounding ones like artillery.
There's sieged that you can use and also the very popular w k to and all of them pretty much do the
same thing.
They simulate requests and we can tell them how many requests we want to hit at an endpoint so let's
use a low test.
All we need to do is just globally install low test which I already have.
And you might have to run the sudo command and after that you have the low test command available to
you.
So let me demonstrate something.
I'm going to say low test and run this command.
Let me make this a little bit bigger.
Now low test dash t simply says t four time limit that is.
I want you to do this low test for five seconds and then dash C means how many number of clients do
we want to create.
So we're creating 100 clients and 100 of them is going to arrive concurrently onto the server.
And then finally we have the dash dash our P.S. And this stands for.
The rate of requests per second.
So we're going to send 100 requests per second to localhost 80.
Once I hit Enter check out what happens on the right side.
Ready let's give it a go.
How cool is that.
And you can see here it's going really fast but it's turning from web one two three one two three one
two three.
And we also get a nice little summary of what we've done.
If I make this a little bit smaller so we can see better.
We see that we've completed four hundred ninety nine requests 100 requests per second.
As we've said a hundred concurrency level again as the parameters that we gave it we had localhost 80
we ran the test for five seconds and the mean latency how long it took to respond was 5.1 milliseconds
fairly fast.
And it shows you some more info of how many of the requests served within a certain time so that looked
pretty good.
Now here's a little fun experiment.
What if I close this and instead of the docker container that has the load bouncer.
What if we just run NPM start.
I've set it up so that the server which is just one single server is listening to localhost three thousand
Now remember our server dodgiest file is just a simple server.
So now that I'm running it on localhost 3000 we can test what happens when there's no low balancer and
just one server.
All we need to do is run the same test but this time instead of port 80 we do port three thousand.
Let's give it a go.
And you see that the server is responding with console logging it.
It's been hit for five seconds and then we have a response.
That's interesting.
So let's have a look at this.
We see here that we have again 500 completer quests no errors.
Just like before but the mean latency was 2.3 milliseconds versus 5.1 milliseconds when we had the load
balancer.
Hmm interesting.
So not having a low balance here was actually faster here because all the metrics are the same except
for the fact that the mean latency was a lot faster.
And that might make sense.
One because well we haven't hit it to too much with too much traffic.
And also the fact that we're running this low balancer in one container that has a low balancer and
three web servers in real life we wouldn't actually do this.
Each one of those services will be on different machines different containers so that it causes a bit
of delay as well.
But let's increase a few more things.
Let's say that now I want to have
500 requests per second.
I'm going to press enter.
All right.
That's good.
We're not getting any errors.
It's able to complete the requests.
That's great.
What if I do.
Even more what if I do a thousand concurrent requests.
All right so it does some work.
It has two thousand nine hundred eighty nine complete requests.
Let's run the doc or compose the load balancer and see how that's going to work.
Again I'm going to run the same thing but this time on port 80.
Let's run that.
Our head is doing some work doing some work
and homeboy.
Those numbers don't look very good do they.
We have mean latency of 140 milliseconds versus 2.9 seconds and the completed requests are well actually
less than when we had the one server.
And again because we're running this on a container it is slower than if he actually implemented load
balancing properly but using this tool I want you to play around and experiment with different things.
See if he can make this load balancer faster than the local host method.
Mind you if you're running a container you may not get that but see how far you have to go to make this
fail.
I hope you have a good idea of running a load balancer how it might work how you can implemented and
also how to do something like load testing to see how good your server is at getting request and when
you might need to actually upgrade maybe have more servers maybe have a load balancer in front of your
server.
All right.
Go have fun out there and low test and have fun with the low test tool.
I'll see in the next one.
Bye bye.